Add documentation on how to get a pg instance clone of prod (#13743)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/postgresql.md

Here's an example of how you could [structure such tests](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/da3743ece358fbe6709f07e95d5fd97bd554e047/cmd/repo-updater/repos/integration_test.go#L17).

If you're uncertain about using triggers as part of your work, do some research before committing to a solution and don't hesitate to discuss it with your peers.

## Investigating postgres performance in production

Instead of using the production postgres instance, one should create a clone of that database, to be able to investigate and hack on indexes, queries and other performance work without risking production going down, or us using data.
To create such an instance, the following commands will help you get your own clone of the database:

### Create a new instance in Google Cloud

> Make sure the instance is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the instance:
```

> - having a recognizable name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- has a recognizable name
```

Author: I wanted to say make sure the instance `is having`, instead of `is has`, maybe that doesn't make sense though

- running debian 10
- uses a fresh boot disk, and an additional **SSD** disk from most recent snapshot
- Use a machine type that's similar to what we provision in k8s, 7CPU, 32GB (Check in prod if in doubt this changed).

This is a convenience script to do the above without using the Cloud Console. (It uses a hardcoded snapshot from 2020-09-10, you need to replace that, at least).

```shell

> gcloud beta compute --project=sourcegraph-dev instances create erik-keegan-test-pg --zone=us-central1-f --machine-type=e2-standard-8 --network=default --network-tier=PREMIUM --maintenance-policy=MIGRATE --service-account=527047051561-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com --scopes=https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append --image=debian-10-buster-v20200902 --image-project=debian-cloud --boot-disk-size=30GB --boot-disk-type=pd-standard --boot-disk-device-name=erik-keegan-test-pg --create-disk="mode=rw,size=200,type=projects/sourcegraph-dev/zones/us-central1-f/diskTypes/pd-ssd,name=erik-keegan-pg-test-data,description=Made from backup--pgsql-prod---cloud--2020-09-10--11-00,device-name=erik-keegan-pg-test-data" --no-shielded-secure-boot --shielded-vtpm --shielded-integrity-monitoring --reservation-affinity=any

Reviewer 2: - This seems to have a service account with permissions to edit all compute resources attached to it, but it does not seem to use it. Could we remove it?
- Do we need to set all those scopes?

I believe this command does not restore the snapshot

Reviewer: we created this via the google cloud console UI and asked it to copy an equivalent google cloud command. It doesn't need all these permissions, in fact most of these flags can likely be removed. We documented above what we specified in the cloud console.

Reviewer 2: I believe the command on the console is incorrect as I executed it but did not end up with a disk from snapshot, I fear the interface might be doing something it should not, which is doing something not exposed in the shown cli.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
gcloud beta compute --project=sourcegraph-dev instances create erik-keegan-test-pg \
  --zone=us-central1-f \
  --machine-type=e2-standard-8 \
  --network=default \
  --network-tier=PREMIUM \
  --maintenance-policy=MIGRATE \
  --service-account=527047051561-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com \
  --scopes=https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.read_only,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/logging.write,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/monitoring.write,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/servicecontrol,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/service.management.readonly,https://www.googleapis.com/auth/trace.append \
  --image=debian-10-buster-v20200902 \
  --image-project=debian-cloud \
  --boot-disk-size=30GB \
  --boot-disk-type=pd-standard \
  --boot-disk-device-name=erik-keegan-test-pg \
  --create-disk="mode=rw,size=200,type=projects/sourcegraph-dev/zones/us-central1-f/diskTypes/pd-ssd,name=erik-keegan-pg-test-data,description=Made from backup--pgsql-prod---cloud--2020-09-10--11-00,device-name=erik-keegan-pg-test-data" \
  --no-shielded-secure-boot \
  --shielded-vtpm \
  --shielded-integrity-monitoring \
  --reservation-affinity=any
```

Makes sense to multi-line this given the non-trivial likelihood someone may need to modify this before running it?

```

### Connect to the instance

```shell

> gcloud compute ssh --zone "us-central1-f" "erik-keegan-test-pg" --project "sourcegraph-dev"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gcloud compute ssh --zone "us-central1-f" "$SOMENAME" --project "sourcegraph-server"
```

```

### Become root

```shell
sudo -i
```

### Install Postgres 11 (matches prod)

```shell
apt update && apt install -y wget
wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
RELEASE=$(lsb_release -cs)
echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/ ${RELEASE}"-pgdg main | sudo tee  /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list
apt update
apt -y install postgresql-11
# Stop the db server, we want to run from our data/config directory.
systemctl stop postgresql
```

### Mount the snapshot of the DB to /mnt/pgdata

```shell
mkdir /mnt/pgdata
mount /dev/sdb /mnt/pgdata
chown -R postgres /mnt/pgdata
```

### Set up US locale

```shell
# Select en_US.UTF-8, and set as default.
sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales
```

### Start up the server

```shell
sudo -u postgres /usr/lib/postgresql/11/bin/postgres -D /mnt/pgdata/pgdata-11
```

### Using a separate shell, connect to the instance

```shell
/usr/lib/postgresql/11/bin/psql -U sg
```

### FINAL NOTE: Don't forget to shut down and delete :)

> - Delete the instance itself (and it's boot disk, happens automatically)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Delete the instance itself (disks will be deleted automatically)
```

Reviewer 2: I verified in the instance I have spun up, but it would be great if you could verify.

Author: Cool, will do this evening

> - Delete the newly created disk from the snapshot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

If you're uncertain about using triggers as part of your work, do some research before committing to a solution and don't hesitate to discuss it with your peers.

## Investigating postgres performance in production

Instead of using the production postgres instance, one should create a clone of that database, to be able to investigate and hack on indexes, queries and other performance work without risking production going down, or us using data.
To create such an instance, the following commands will help you get your own clone of the database:

### Create a new instance in Google Cloud

Make sure the instance:

- has a recognizable name
- running debian 10
- uses a fresh boot disk, and an additional **SSD** disk from most recent snapshot
- Use a machine type that's similar to what we provision in k8s, 7CPU, 32GB (Check in prod if in doubt this changed).

This is a convenience script to do the above without using the Cloud Console.

```shell
#!/bin/sh

set -eux

instance_name="$USER-test-pg"
boot_disk_name="${instance_name}-boot"
pg_disk_name="${instance_name}-data"
snapshot="$(gcloud compute snapshots list | awk '/backup--pgsql-prod---cloud/ { print $1 }' | sort -n | tail -n1)"

> gcloud compute --project=sourcegraph-dev instances create "${instance_name}" \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gcloud compute --project=sourcegraph-server instances create "${instance_name}" \
```

Reviewer: the snapshot exists in sourcegraph-dev. I haven't tried this out yet with -server, can we keep the dev recommendation for now?

Reviewer 2: I would prefer not to, as this would guide devs to create untracked resources in `sourcegraph-dev`. I think I tested this when I added this comment https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/13743#discussion_r486372717
